[D1]: move to rows read/written (#10412)
cloudflare/cloudflare-docs: content/d1/changelog.md

# Changelog

## 2023-08-19

> ### Rows counts now returned per query

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Row count now returned per query
```

D1 now returns a count of `rows_written` and `rows_read` for every query executed, allowing you to assess the cost of query for both [pricing](/d1/platform/pricing/) and [index optimization](/d1/learning/using-indexes/) purposes.

> The `meta` object returned in D1's [Client API](/d1/platform/client-api/) contains a total count of the rows read (`rows_read`) and rows written (`rows_written`) by that query. For example, a query that performs a full table scan (e.g. `SELECT * FROM users`) from a table with 5000 rows would return a `rows_read` value of `5000`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `meta` object returned in [D1's Client API](/d1/platform/client-api/) contains a total count of the rows read (`rows_read`) and rows written (`rows_written`) by that query. For example, a query that performs a full table scan (for example, `SELECT * FROM users`) from a table with 5000 rows would return a `rows_read` value of `5000`:
```

```json
"meta": {
  "duration": 0.20472300052642825,
  "size_after": 45137920,
  "rows_read": 5000,
  "rows_written": 0
}
```

> Visit the [pricing documentation](/d1/platform/pricing/) for D1 to understand how reads and writes are measured. Note that D1 remains free to use during the alpha period.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Refer to [D1 pricing documentation](/d1/platform/pricing/) to understand how reads and writes are measured. D1 remains free to use during the alpha period.
```
